# Sales Insights Of Atliq Hardware Company 
This is the first data analysis guided project by codebasics.io using Power BI.This Project has given me how data analysis are executed in big companies.
## Problem Statement 
This Project is about computer hardware business Atliq Hardware Company which was facing challenges in dynamically changing market.Sales director decided to in data analysis project and would like to build a Power BI dashboard that can give real time sales insings.
## Purpose
To unlock sales insights that aren't visible before for decision making support and automate them to reduce manual time spent in data gathering.
## Stackholders
1.Sales Director  
2.Marketing Team  
3.Customer Service Team  
4.Data Analytics Team  
5.IT
## Procedures that I followed
1.ETL(Extract,Transform,Load) with the help of Power BI built-in tool called Power Query.  
-Extract: Importing of data  
-Transform: Cleaned & Shaped data using Power Query Editor.These involved:  
    *Removing duplicates irrelevant columns.  
    *Filtering Rows and handling missing values.  
    *Changing data types  
-Load: After Transforming the data,loaded it into the Power BI data model.  
2.DAX formulas used for data modeling and creating calculated columns and measures.  
3.Data Modeling to define relationships between tables.  
4.Performed EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis):  
    *Descriptive Statistics  
    *Indentified Outliers  
    *Correlations  
    *Trends Over Time  
5.Building Visualization.  
6.Published to Power BI service to share.  
## Power BI Dashboard
[👉Click Here👈](https://app.powerbi.com/view?r=eyJrIjoiODI2NDdmN2ItMmZlNC00NWZiLTg3ODItMjYwM2VkNzE0N2QwIiwidCI6ImRmODY3OWNkLWE4MGUtNDVkOC05OWFjLWM4M2VkN2ZmOTVhMCJ9)
## Key Insights 
_**Financial Analysis**_ 
1.Overall,If we look at the revenue and profit margin generated by Atliq Company in 2017,2018,2019,2020, revenue is 948.87 M and profit margin is 2M in Indian rupees with 24.7M sales quantity.Therefore we can say that Atliq Hardware Business is growing rapidly.  
2.After 2017 there is a fast growth in business but in 2020 ,suddenly declined to  may be due to COVID-19 pandemic.  
_**Market Analysis**_ 
1.Delhi NCR is in top position to renerate revenue more than 50% all the years followed by Mumbai and Ahmedabad.  
2.Bangaluru is the bottom performing market in revenue and profit margin contribution in all years of 2017,2018,2019,2020.  
__RECOMMENDATION__ 
➡️ Conduct market research to understand their preference, which enable more strategic decisions.  
_**Customer Analysis**_  
1.Premium Stores is the top customer of Atliq having purchase quantity of 2,79,000,revenue and profit margin are 44.97M and 1.1M rupees.  
2.Top 5 Atliq customers are Premium Stores,Nixon,Electricalsara Stores,Electricalsopedia Stores and Excel Stores.  
_**Product Analysis**_ 
1.Product_code 090,293,237,245 and 265 are the top products.  
2.There are more than 10 products whose sales quantity is are very less.  
__RECOMMENDATION__  
➡️ Invest in product development for underperforming products to enhance their competitiveness and market appeal.  



  
